Beyond CLV And ROI: Analyze Bet Results Using Expected ROI
Beyond CLV And ROI: Analyze Bet Results Using Expected ROI
Rufus Peabody
The Process
February 29, 2024
When we evaluate our past bets, most thoughtful bettors are looking at some combination of their actual results and their closing line value.
CLV is useful because it stabilizes much more quickly than actual results. Return on investment is what we’re all playing for, but how can we strip the luck out of actual results? How can we use results in a manner similar to CLV to be more predictive, more quickly? Basically, how can we de-luck our actual performance?
If you bet college basketball like I do, you probably bitch and moan about poor overtime luck, losing close games, and all sorts of other events where we’re on the wrong side of variance.
For example, say you bet Under 143 in a college basketball game. It goes to overtime tied 60-60 but finishes at 146. You feel like you were on the right side of the game and were unlucky. I can look at “overtime flips” as a way to de-luck my results. In other words, how the bet would have been graded if it didn’t go to OT. I do the same thing with extra inning results in baseball.
How we do in games that fall within a point or two of the spread is pretty random, and if I’m returning 15 percent on those games, I expect that I’ve been lucky.
If I’m returning negative-15 percent, I’ve been unlucky. But how lucky? And how can I extend that rudimentary analysis to other games? Surely, if I’m returning 20 percent on games that fall 3-4 points from the spread, I’ve also been on the right side of variance.
I have a simple, intuitive way to re-grade your bets in a way that is more indicative of how you
should
have performed based on the results of the games you bet. I call it expected ROI, or xROI.
We assume the score at the end of regulation was our best prediction going into the game. In other words, we’re treating the final results as our closing line. How often would we expect our bet to win if that were the case?
Putting Together xROI with Alt Lines or Distributions
Here’s an example from Saturday.
I bet on Oregon -6.5. They won the game by 2 points. How often would a 2-point favorite be expected to win by 6.5 points? 34 percent of the time.
My bet lost (which gives us a healthy -100 percent ROI) but my xROI was -35 percent assuming I bet it at -110.
I also bet Oregon on the moneyline at -285, yielding an actual return on investment of 35 percent. How often would we expect a 2-point favorite to win the game outright? The implied probability of a -285 moneyline is 74 percent. Using the
Alternate Lines Calculator
, the equivalent moneyline to a -2 favorite is -135, or an implied probability of 57 percent.
So while I made money on the bet, my xROI was actually -23 percent.
One more example: I bet on Northwestern/Minnesota Under 139 on Feb. 3. The score was 61-61 at the end of regulation, but ended with Minnesota winning, 75-66, in overtime. A game totaled at 122 would be expected to stay under 139
around 88 percent of the time.
The formula we can use here is: xCOVER%*(Even money/betting odds)-(1-xCOVER%)
First, let’s back that up.
To get your xCOVER%, you can use the
Alt Line
C
alculator
like the one at Unabated, but it’s even easier to assume a normal distribution centered around the final results. Your standard deviation is based on the historical distribution of game outcomes around the point spread (or total).
Then use your spreadsheet’s NORM.DIST() function. The standard deviation I used in this case is 14.5 points.
xCOVER% = NORM.DIST(139,122,14.5,true) =  87.95 percent
Now we can go back to get our xROI. Our xCOVER% is 88 percent or 0.88. Even money divided by our betting odds are 1/1.1. And 1-xCOVER% in this case is 1-0.88 or 0.12.
So my xROI would be 0.88*(1/1.1)-0.12 = 68 percent
Now we have a pretty straightforward way to quantify our results in a way that’s more predicative and arrives at a “true” outcome faster than just counting up our actual ROI.
A Few Notes
Overtimes change this a little bit. You can make things somewhat more complex to account for that. However, if you are balanced between betting Overs and Unders, this is close enough. It’s close enough for my purposes.
I realize there are many things you can do to strip luck out of the outcome of any sporting event.
Bill Connelly
does a great job of this in college football with his postgame win expectation. This isn’t intended to do that. This is the most simple version using just the game’s final score in order to be a better predictor of future ROI than actual ROI.
You can go more in-depth and use something like what we do for Massey-Peabody game grades, or what Bill Connelly does, and generate an expected final score that strips out luck. You could also make some very simple adjustments to the final score (by stripping out fumble recovery luck in NFL games, for example). But this framework still should apply.
This is one I’ve been thinking more and more about. You can also adjust your standard deviation parameter in the normal distribution to reflect less uncertainty in game outcome compared to what we’d get using the distribution of game results around a closing spread or total. I do believe this method outlined above will understate your ROI a bit if you’re a winning bettor for that reason. I’m going to do some fiddling to see if there’s an adjustment that’s most optimal to predict future ROI.
Want to see how other bettors are applying concepts like this? Drop
into the Discord
. Need an introduction to more fundamental concepts?
Sign up for one of our demos
and get a 5-day trial to Unabated Premium!
On
(
UTC
)
, we will be live on
YouTube
.
Duration :
hours
Learn From The Pros
BEGIN MY MEMBERSHIP
Latest Articles
Gambling Taxes FAQ
Mistakes to Avoid When Betting on The Masters
How to Bet Golf: Analyzing the Course
MLB Betting Is Three Seasons
The Last Word on Problem Gambling and Sports Betting
March Madness Betting Strategies: -103 Odds & Other Approaches
Building NCAA Basketball Power Rankings And A Bracket Simulator
Solving March Madness Prop Bets
Latest Videos
Learn About The Props Simulator
Learn About The Partial Game Derivative Calculator
Learn about the CLV Calculator
Learn about the Derivatives Calculator
Learn about the Hold Calculator
Betting Tools
NFL Season Simulator
NFL Props Simulator
NBA Props Simulator
NFL Teaser Calculator
NFL Pick'em Edge Tool
MLB DFS Pick'em Tool
NFL DFS Pick'em Tool
College Football Injury Updates
College Football Depth Charts
Betting Odds
NFL Odds
NBA Odds
MLB Odds
NHL Odds
WNBA Odds
College Football Odds
College Basketball Odds
NFL Player Props
NBA Player Props
WNBA Player Props
College Football Player Props
Betting Calculators
Closing Line Value
Compare Lines
Hold Calculator
Odds Converter
No-Vig Fair Odds Calculator
Hedge Betting Calculator
Derivatives - Alternate Lines
Derivatives - Partial Game
Betting Education
How can I find positive-EV wagers?
Ten ways to win at sports betting
Is arbitrage betting worth it?
How should I bet Super Bowl props?
How can I win betting NBA props?
What's the best way to approach betting on the NFL?
How to bet NFL futures and season-win totals
Should I hedge my bet?
How do I become a professional sports bettor?
How can I avoid getting limited at sportsbooks?
What is a risk-free bet and how do I get the most from it?
Who sets sports betting lines?
Building a sports betting model
Bankroll management for sports betting
Best sports betting books
Unabated
Privacy
Terms of Use
Sports Betting API
Follow Us on X
Subscribe to Us on YouTube
Follow Us on Instagram
Follow Us on TikTok
Listen to the Unabated Podcast
Email support@unabated.com
Join the Unabated Discord
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
Get the Unabated Newsletter
Copyright
2026
© Unabated Sports, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DISCLAIMER:
This site is strictly for educational and informational purposes only and does not involve any real-money betting. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem and wants help, call 1-800-GAMBLER. This service is intended for adults aged 18 and over only.