What is going on everyone? My name is Robbie. I'm a profitable sports better from Massachusetts. I am a content creator for outlier.bet and the owner of the Sharpmoney Discord. Today we're going to be talking about closing line value and this is one of my favorite metrics and things to talk about because it's actually what I named myself after for my online persona. Uh closing dime is a play on the closing line. So, let's talk about why it is so important. It is the number one metric uh that sports books use to identify sharp sports betterers. So if you can beat the closing line, you'll be considered a sharp sports better. And I can guarantee long-term that you will make money sports betting if you can beat the closing line on a consistent basis. So what is the closing line? The closing line is very simple. It is simply the last set of odds or numbers that the sports book offer right before the event starts. So, let's just say for football, it is Sunday at 1:00 and the Chiefs and the Patriots are just kicking off. You look at the sports book at 12:59 because the game starts at 1 and the line is set at Patriots + three and Chiefs minus three. That is the closing line. Now, the reason it is so important to beat the closing line is that the number that the sports books set right before kickoff is the most efficient number and the most accurate number that they can they can get to. All of their models have put them on that number. Uh the betting from the public and the sharp has put them on that number. Injury reports, weather reports, all of that is all factored into that final number. So, if you can find value from that final number, then you have a great bet. For example, with sports betting, you're able to bet throughout the course of a week. So, you don't you don't want to ever really place a bet right before an event starts because you're betting into a very efficient market, right? You're never going to beat that closing line if you're betting 10 minutes before kickoffs because the numbers are simply not going to change. But where you can find value is betting early in the week. So, let's just say that line closed at Patriots plus three points. But earlier in the week, you were able to get the Patriots plus six points. So now you have an extra three points compared to the closing line uh compared to the most efficient number that the market can produce. So that is closing line value when you can beat the closing line and beat the numbers and the odds set by the sports book right before the event starts. Now this also goes the other way where let's just say you bet the Patriots plus one points early in their week and now the closing line closed at plus three. Now you lost those extra two points to the closing line and you have what we call a negative expected value bet or a bet that is not beating the closing line which you don't want to put yourself in that position. The other way you can beat the closing line is simply by getting better odds. Doesn't have to necessarily be the better number. So let's just say you had Patriots plus three at plus 100 odds earlier in the week and now the Patriots plus three is minus 130. So you have 30 cents of value compared to the closing line. That would also be good CLV. Even though you didn't beat the number three, the odds move so much in your favor that you are still having value. So it also works the other way where let's just say you bet the Patriots for plus three points at plus 100 odds and now come kickoff it is Patriots plus three for plus 150. Now you could have gotten a much better price at the closing line. and instead you bought it earlier in the week at a really bad price. So line shopping and finding the best value is very important when it comes to beating the closing line. Like I said earlier in the video, sports books look at the closing line value to identify the sharp bers that are betting on their sports book. It is important for sports books to identify sharp bettors because retail books will limit sharp betterers. They don't want a customer that is going to cost them money. So, like I said, it is the most important factor in determining whether you are a pretty much a good better or not. A lot of people might assume that it's just based on how much money you made, but that is completely false. The sports books really don't care how much money you made if you're placing bad bets. Like, for example, if I was to place 10 bets with a perceived edge where I got the closing line value on those bets, I could easily lose nine out of 10 bets. But that doesn't mean they were terrible bets to place. Uh, recreational sports bers might assume if you lose nine out of ten bets that they're terrible bets, but that's really not the truth about sports betting. A lot of people have a hard time wrapping them their head around that, but uh you could just have some random person flipping a coin picking teams and they could easily go 10 for 10 in that small sample size. So, the sports books aren't looking at the win or loss uh ratio. They aren't looking at your profit loss ratio. They are looking at your closing line value because they know if you can get a better number than the number that they closed at that you had some type of edge, some type of information, uh better model, something that you knew uh that the sports book did not have priced into that line yet. So, that's what they're looking for. Uh one example, this is a great example. When I first started getting into profitful sports betting, I was using DraftKings quite a bit. And over the course of about one month, I was down $500 on their book. I was negative $500. And I was limited on a lot of markets because I was beating the closing line, but I yet turned a profit. So, they aren't looking for people that are making money. They're looking for people that are finding edges within their markets. Now that you understand what the closing line is and why it is so important, I'm going to go into a little bit more detail here and explain why beating the closing line by a small amount is still not enough to beat the sports books. The problem with betting into sports books odds are they add what we call a vig or a tax to the line. For an example, a lot of the sports books lines you see will be priced at minus 110 on both sides. if they were not adding a tax or a vig, the lines would be set at plus 100 for each side because they are saying it's a 5050 chance of hitting and you know if you bet $100 you'll win an extra hundred. Uh and if you bet $100 on the other side and you lose you lose 100. So they would make no money if they kept the odds plus 100 on each side. So what they do is they add a vig uh typically like I said minus 110 on each side of the line. Now that tax or vig on a minus 110 line is about 4 76%. So you need to overcome the vig with your edge. So if you're betting into a minus 110 line and on a different book you got that at minus 105 earlier in the day then yes you have a little bit of closing line value but you don't have value to uh the no vig closing line which is really what you need to beat. You need to beat the closing line with the vig removed. So if you're betting minus 110 or if the line closes at minus 110 on each side then the fair value of that line is plus 100 meaning you needed to get a better price than plus 100 to actually overcome that vig and have an edge. So simply getting you know odds at minus 105 when the market is set at minus 110 is not enough to overcome the vig and actually be profitable. So you need to find an edge that is larger than the vig if that makes sense. While we're talking about closing line value, I have to give a shout out to Picket. It is a free app uh that tracks all of your sports books profits and loss. It also has a CLV tracker so you can see if you're placing good bets long term. If you are trying to become a profitable sports better, you need to have Pickicket because it is a great place to go through all of your bets, see where you're winning and losing, see where you're beating the closing line and where you're not. So, I pulled up my picket page right here, and these are some of the bets that I placed on a Sunday afternoon. And I just want to go in and explain the closing line value and kind of how it looks. So, here's a bet that I ended up actually winning, but I had a negative 1.7% CLV. So, even though this bet won, this is a bet where I look back and say, um, whatever edge I thought I had earlier in the week when I bet this, uh, the edge was gone at game time. So, even though it won, in my eyes, this is a bet that I would look into and say, I need to adjust something here because I thought I had value. I thought I was going to beat the closing line, but I ended up not being in the closing line. So, I took the Vikings minus 5 and a half and I grabbed them at minus 114 odds, but the closing line was minus 110, which is a better number than minus14. So, I lost about 1.67% expected value. That's without the VIG. So, in reality, I was pretty much giving up about 6% vig here, uh, with no edge. Even though this bet did win, in my eyes, this is not a profitable bet long term, and this is a bet that I should not have placed. So, let's go on the other side and kind of see the the opposite example, which is right underneath this, where I have about a 20% expected value here, where I was on the the Bucks versus the Raiders over 45, over 44 and a half points. I got this price at minus 110 and this closed at minus 170 which means this was an incredible bet. One of probably the best bet that I placed on Sunday and guess what? It lost. But that does not mean that I should not have placed this bet. I would place this bet over and over. If I can get 20% um value compared to the closing line. That is a bet that I absolutely love. So just a really good example of hey this bet lost but it was a great bet. Um I mean let's just look at one that actually won. So this was the the Browns versus the Steelers. I bet it this is how you know this is how I want every bet to go. I bet this under 42 and a half at plus 118 odds and the closing line was minus 109. So I got the closing line value and the bet came through as a win. Uh best of both both worlds. So, I just wanted to pull up my Picket page, give a little shout out to Picket because they're an awesome free tool, and just kind of show you what CLV actually looks like in the context of myself placing bets and then going back into my bets later to kind of look and analyze, you know, where I was losing and gaining value. So, I appreciate you guys watching this video. If you like this kind of content, uh, please check out one of the other videos that we've made on the outlier.bet YouTube channel. You can also follow me on Picket or on Twitter or on YouTube, closing dime. I stream for outlier.bet on Tuesdays and Thursdays on their Twitch and my YouTube channel. So definitely check that out. I appreciate you guys watching. Please leave a like up. I'll see you guys next
