My name is Robbie. I also go by the name Closing Dime. I'm a profitable sports better from Massachusetts, owner of the Sharp Money Discord, and a content creator for the website Outlier. Today, we are going to discuss the Kelly criteria formula when it comes to sports betting. Now, the Kelly criterion formula is often used by professional sports bers to determine how many units or percent of their bankroll they should be placing on an individual bet. Let's just start with an overview of the Kelly criterion formula and why we use it as sport betterers. The formula is used by sports betterers to find optimal bet sizes. The Kelly criterion formula factors in the win probability and the perceived edge of a given bet to determine the optimal bet size. The goal of the formula is to maximize a better's upswings and minimize their down swings. Bets with a larger perceived edge or higher win probabilities will result in a higher recommended bet size from the formula. For example, if you have a 2% edge on a bet with plus 200 odds, the McKelly formula will recommend a lower unit size than a bet with minus 200 odds because the minus 200 odds obviously has a better win probability than bet at plus 200 odds. If you were to bet a large number of units on plays at plus 200 odds or higher, then your risk of losing your entire bankroll would be much higher. You also might see betterers use what we call half Kelly or quarter Kelly bet sizing. This is simply basing your bet sizing off of a fraction of the full Kelly formula. Using 1/2 Kelly is pretty standard across the board when it comes to sports betting. If you're using 1/2 Kelly and the full Kelly formula says to bet two units on a play, then you would simply multiply the two units by.5 or a half uh to get your half Kelly value, which would be one unit. If you are new to sports betting or just want to take a more conservative approach to sports betting, I would recommend using 1/4 or 1/8 Kelly to start. Lowering your Kelly will decrease your chance of losing your entire bank roll, but this could also slow down your bankroll growth by not taking full advantage of the edges you are finding. So, it's kind of a little bit of a trade-off there. Uh, this is all personal preference and you should determine how conservative or aggressive you want to be with your own strategy. So, let's dig into some math here. We're going to break down the formulas on a piece of paper and show you guys how it's done. Um, this might be a little bit boring to some of you guys, but if you guys are really trying to make money sports betting, you need to understand the math behind it. And this is a great video to start with. So let's go. So this right here is the Kelly criterion formula. It is f= b * b minus q / b. Now obviously that doesn't make any sense to you until you know what these letters mean. So what we have down here is the key. So f is the percent of bankroll that we want to bet. So we're solving for f and that's going to give us the percent of our bankroll we should be betting. B is the bet that we're placing as a decimal minus one. P is the probability of that bet winning. And Q is the losing probability which is simply 1 minus P which is the probability of winning. So before we actually can solve this formula, since we are working with American odds like - 110 - 120 odds like that, everything you do with sports betting math, you're going to need to be able to convert American odds into decimal odds. So let's first look at how to convert American odds to decimal odds. And there's two formulas in doing this. one. If the odds are positive, then we do use the American odds divided by 100 plus one. And that's going to give us the decimal odds for that bet. If the American odds are negative, like - 110, then we do 100 divided by the American odds plus one will give us that decimal. So, let's do a quick example here. I have the Patriots and Chiefs. Since the Patriots is a negative number minus 150 versus the Chiefs plus 135. So this negative number we are going going to use the formula 100 / the American odds + 1. So we can plug that in right here. We will do 100 / 150. So right here too we want to use the absolute value of 150. Um so we do that plus one will give us our decimal odd. So 100 / 150 = 667 + 1. So this - 150 is equivalent to 1.67 in decimal odds. So we can move over and do the Chiefs. In this formula for the Chiefs it is plus odds. So we are putting the American odds first and then dividing by 100 + 1. So the American odds are + 135 here. So we do 135 / 100 + 1. [Music] Go over to our calculator. 135 / 100 = 1.35 + 1. So that's going to give us 2.35. So the Patriots - 150 in decimal odds is 1.67. Chiefs + 135 is 2.35 in decimal odds. So we can go back to our starting formula here and we need to solve for each one of these letters. So I will keep this in screen and we'll write down what each of these letters mean and we'll use the Patriots Chiefs as an example since we just figured out the odds for that. So F is going to equal the percent of bankroll to bet. That's what we're solving for. So we're not going to be able to solve for that right now. So F equals percent of bankroll. B equals the bet as a decimal minus one. We're going to use the Patriots in this equation. So we had 1.67 was the bet as a decimal minus one. So 1.67US 1 is going to equal 67. So that is what B is going to equal in the equation. We'll use it here and we'll use it here. Uh P is the probability of winning. Now this is when this is determined by each individual sports better. There are many ways to come out to figure out a probability of winning. Some people use models, algorithms, trends. Some people do top down betting comparing the win probability of other books. Uh for this example, I'm just going to use a 62% win probability for the Patriots at minus 150. That's just what we're going to use in this example. And so we have the probability of winning. And like I said, everything is expressed in decimal form. So 62 is going to be our P. And Q down here will be the probability of losing which is simply 1 minus P uh which is 62. Put it into our calculator. 1 -62. And obviously this is going to equal 38 uh which is the probability of losing. Obviously if we win 62% of the time you're going to lose 38% of the time. So let's plug this into our formula here. So we'll rewrite the formula. f = b p - q / b. So we'll solve for this top half first. So f equals b 67 times p winning probability 62 [Music] minus q which is 38. So, let's do this top part of the equation in our calculator real quick. And obviously, this is going to well, we'll throw this in here. Obviously, it's going to be divided by B, which is 67, which is the bet as a decimal minus one. So, let's solve for the top here. 67 * 62 and we get41 54 minus 38 / 67. So now we will solve uh this top part of the equation.4154 minus 38 will give us I'll move it back over here.3 54 on the top half of the equation divided by 67 and that's going to be our telly criteria answer here which is going to equal 0.052. So this is it wants you to bet 0.05% of your bank roll. If you multiply that by 100, you can get it into a percentage. So if we multiply this by 100, u we will be betting 5.2% of our bankroll on this bet. So if we have a bet that is minus 150 with a 62% win probability, we should be betting 5.2% of our bankroll. Like we said earlier in the video, bankroll uh one unit is typically 1% of bankroll. So this would be a 5.2 unit bet if this is a full Kelly formula. So also like we talked about earlier in the video, 1/2 Kelly, you would simply times this number by.5 if you were using half Kelly, which would give you 2.6 units to bet. Or if you were doing a quarter Kelly, you could do 5.2 * 0.25, 25, which is a quarter, and you would have 1.3 units to bet. So, that's kind of the little breakdown there. Um, kind of got a little scrambled here, but I think it gets the point across. The math is not that crazy. It's not that hard to do. Um, so I hope you guys followed along pretty good. If you like this video, leave a like. Um, you can follow me on YouTube and on Picket, ClosingDime. I also stream for Outlier twice a week on Tuesdays and Thursdays on their Twitch account out called outlier.bet. So, I hope you guys like this video. I go make some money.
