If you think sports betting is impossible to beat, you've been brainwashed. I'm a professional gambler and this is what I do. The truth is, sports books only win because people play the wrong game. Today, I'm going to show you the exact methods that everyday people use to ground out a long-term profits. This is not fantasy. This is not hype. This is just strategies that will put the odds in your favor. If you're tired of donating your money to the sports book, let's do something about it. I'm Tony from Betty. Let's crack on. Just a quick disclaimer, this video is for educational purposes. What I'm showing you is how advantage players of all levels profit from betting mathematically. So why is profiting even possible? The first reason is book makers, sports books give you a bonus when you sign up for new betting accounts. This can be used to your advantage. And secondly is what they call the market inefficiencies. Now, we're going to be going through them, but marketing efficiencies come about because you can go line shopping. You've got a choice of sports books out there. You get to choose when to bet, and that is your main advantage. Now, let me just also add that some people are making hundreds of thousands of months from using value betting, from using advantage betting. and others such as Tony Bloom and his Star Lizard Group were recently reported in the Guardian to make 600 million in one year. Just imagine that from sports betting. 600 million. Now, before we get into the ways that can be used to profit from sports betting, let's just quickly look at the mindset that's going to be needed. First of all, you cannot be compulsive by nature. You've got to have control over your own emotions. Secondly, you should only be using money that you can afford and it should be your own money. Thirdly, and most importantly, accept that it's about the maths and not good feeling. And have realistic expectations. If you come into this with 500 and expect to profit millions in a short space of time, I'm afraid that is unrealistic. And the final thing I'd like to say is these are systems, not guesswork. Now, let me suggest five methods that you can actually use to uh profit from sports betting. And the first of them is going to be that deposit bonus that I mentioned before. When you put money into a sports book, you'll get a matched bet, a first time deposit bonus. There will be a limit on it, but it might be say up to 100. You deposit 100, they'll give you 100 in free bets. It is a first-time deposit bonus. You're not going to get it later. So, you want to max out on it. That leads me nicely on to match betting. Now, match betting, you can go and grab a cheap software. Just Google it up, you know, match betting, and they will give you bets that you should be placing. So, you can put in your sports books and they'll tell you how to play these bonuses off against each other because bonuses, one of the issues with them is that they have to have a rollover. You have to play so much of them before you can cash out, right? Match betting websites do that for you and then you're going to get 85 or 90% maybe of the bonus as your profit. Thirdly is the arbitrage or also known as a shore bets. This is when you're guaranteed to win because you are betting with two different sports books. They're on the same game but you're getting advantageous odds. So let's just imagine that coin flip you know where you can put 100 on eds with one book maker odds of 2-1 and tails with the other bookmaker. the same odds, you put 100 on with each, you'd get 210 back, whichever one won, and you would have profited 10, you know, plus 5%. That's an arbitrage betting. It's sports betting is a little bit different, but arbitrage betting can be very advantageous. And then you've got value betting. Now, this is what I would say is the best of the lot in terms of ROI. And the reason for that is you're not giving value back. Often with an arbitrage, let's just tell you that a spin of a coin, you could get 250 on one side, but only 1.80 on the other side. You would actually have a negative EV on the odds of 1.80 because the true odds are two, right? So obviously in an arbitrage situation, you would still profit, but you'd be giving value back by betting uh the you know the tails as such. And finally, there is middling. Now, in this instance, what you're doing is you're going to be betting on two sides of an handicap. So let's just take a basketball game for example where one team is minus 9 and half off with one bookmaker and you can get plus 10 and a half the opposite team with another bookmaker. Now let's just imagine for argument sake that both the odds were two. So level betting you would be guaranteed your money back whichever one came. But if it came in the middle if it came on 10 points you would actually win on both sides of the bet. If you was a little bit more advanced you should definitely look into middling. It's a great way to actually gain upper hand against the sports books without them knowing too much. And I think it's something at least you should know. Finding the best bookmaker odds can be overwhelming, especially with so many announced odds and price boosts popping up every week. That's why I recommend using bookies bonuses. It's the site that lists every UK betting site in one place. They also amp the top boost for the biggest football matches so you don't need to waste time searching through dozens of bookies. And the best part, the page is updated twice a week, making it the go-to spot for the latest and strongest football price boost. Check it out. It saves you time and makes life easier. I'll post a link in the description. Now, since my audience is from many different countries, right, and not all sports betting is created equal. We need to take into consideration where you're at. So, you need to do a bit of a self assessment. So, first of all, have a look at the sports books that you can actually get in your country. What are they offering? Is it the bonuses? Is it fantastic odds? Listen to betting shops where you can actually stay on detectors, right? There's a lot of different ways, lots of different methods that you can actually profit from sports betting. Ask yourself about your betting experience. You know, are you somebody that's so knowledgeable? If not, I'm afraid you're going to be relying purely on the software. Thirdly, is your time available? Because that's going to affect, you know, what you really should be doing. If it's going to be, you know, just like a couple of hours a week, then of course it's a slightly different play than if you're going all in. And I guess you should also consider your basic math. You know, can you add two and two together? Some people unfortunately are probably not so mathematical, but I think you've just got to have some kind of logic when it comes to this type of betting. So, some basic maths at least. And that brings me nicely on to the bank roll. How much can you actually afford to put into this? So, let's talk about betting banks. If you're starting with what is deemed a low betting bank, you know, probably just like $500, £500, then you're going to have to obviously play a different uh ball game. So, just for example, I would suggest in this instance you start with at least three sports books. You're not going to be betting more than one to two% on any of your bets. You've got to bear in mind there's still variance and you don't want to lose your money. Now the other issue obviously if you've got a low betting bank you don't want to really be paying money for software. So I would suggest that you use the likes of bet fair for getting your odds that would give you a great benchmarking point or you could use Pinnacle if you know how to use it properly. Uh or alternatively you can Google there are some uh free softwares out there. They're not fantastic but they will give you some advantage plays. And don't forget you know you've just got to keep building one step at a time. Now, if you were able to start with what I would call a medium starting bank, so let's just say for example, $25,000, £25,000, you would have a good starting point. In this instance, what I would suggest is that you place roughly half of that. So, say if it was $2,000, $1,250 divided by five different sports books, right? So, you'd send them each of them 250 and then of course on top of that, you would get your bonuses. You are still going to be betting on average 1% on every bet. 2% if the actual EV the expected value is high and I would also recommend that you actually sign up to a software because it's worth paying for if you've got that much meeting going to make life much easier. Now, if you had a relatively big betting bank to get started, so that's sort of like the 10,000 plus, then it's going to change the scenario a little bit, right? The stakes are still going to be the same. You still want to get like 1% is your sort of base rate and 0.5 is the lower and 2% on actually, you know, when you've got massive EV in your favor, right? You definitely want to sign up in this instance to uh different softwares. And I would suggest taking two softwares because the reason for this is you're going to find one is going to suit you better than the other one. So you know you learn it and maybe you're still going to get advantage plays from the second one but you'll soon learn what's going to be favorable to you. So you'll be able to scale a little bit faster. So like I mentioned it's the same staking rules. You might want to start looking at doing things like a middling and you might also want to start bringing in some kind of other bears which I'm going to go through now in this section. So here are the quick tips. If you are doing arbitrage betting, make sure you take the value option first, right? Get yourself open some kind of odds portal and odds checking website and just see where the actual odds are outstanding. On the other side, you're always going to be able to get to fill in. Secondly is what I just mentioned, the stake sizing. You want to bet more when the EV is high and less when the EV is low. If you want to hang around in this game for a long time, number three is going to be important. Stick to the major markets and the major bet types. So, the major bet types are pretty obvious, right? You're going to be doing uh money line, you're going to be doing handicaps, and you're going to be doing totals. Now, you can bring in some player markets, but don't make them so obvious, you know, that it's like your total f. And I would also like to suggest that you introduce paries into your betting. If you're getting positive EV on all your bets, then you start banging them together, you know, in parlays, in system bets, then you make even more money because obviously your EV, your expected value increases. This one's very important. Do not withdraw your winnings until your account gets limited. We don't want to notify them of your success and force a review of your betting account and limitation. And here's the thing with free bets. Make sure you go for high odds. The stake you don't get back. It's not part of yours. If they give you 100 free bets then and you place it at 1.2, you're only going to be getting 20 in profit. If you place that odds of five, you're getting 500 profit. Got to try to get the maximum EV and that is taking slightly higher odds. So, and if you're going to be using betting shops, then just stay within the realms of reality. You know, if that's a shopper is in a very rich area, you can obviously be betting higher stakes. If it's in a low class area where people are betting like fives and tenners, you've got to try to blend in, right? You don't want to go in with like your 500 beds. And the final thing is get them to those middles as quick as you can because they are beneficial and uh it's way of profiting without sort of sports book noticing so much. So, finally, I'd like to say don't expect miracles, expect math, right? Just work on the logic. Do things right and you have the potential to profit. If you do have any questions, ask them in the comments and I'll try to answer them, at least the sensible ones. You know, if you did like this video, give us a thumbs up, consider subscribing to the channel, and we'll see us in the next one soon. We're here to educate you how to be a smarter sports better. So, that's it. You're through to boot camp. See you in the next one soon. Take care. The
