Hey, Point Spread Weekly is out now and here's the best part. It's free. All eyes will be on the UFC this weekend. So, Jonathan Vontoble breaks down the UFC expanded betting card. Make sure you check it out. Also, darts. Yep, darts. Join the list of sports we never thought we'd bet on in the US. It's huge in the UK. Ron Flatter tells us how to bet darts. You can sign up now and get all of Von's content free until a major sport returns. Just go to von.com/subscribe. Okay, we welcome you back here on the Everything Guide to Sports Betting. And we're talking about the term uh sharps. Now, sometimes when you know, you know, and I think the best way to talk about being a sharp better is, you know, you genuinely make a living in the sports betting space. Our next guest is a gentleman that when you know you know. Rufus Peabody is a guy that's respected across the board in the wagering space. He's a professional handicapper. You've seen him here on VS and we say hi to Rufus. And as we do, first off, thank you for joining us. Really appreciate it. We're big fans of your work. Let's start here for a little background, Rufus. How did you get involved in sports wagering? Well, thanks guys for having me first off and and you know, you say when you know, you know, but you know, you're always having to reinvent yourself to to keep an edge in this game. Um, but I I got into sports betting. Uh, I well, it started when I took an internship with Las Vegas Sports Consultants after my junior year of college back in 2007. And then I ended up taking a full-time job with them um in 2008. and I did my senior thesis um for the economics department in college on psychological inefficiencies in the baseball betting market. So I I figured I I found an edge and and I moved to Vegas and was able to sort of um hone my skills and and learn a lot from the guys at Las Vegas Sports Consultants before kind of uh going out on my own. Well, Rufus, this is Josh Abalon. Thanks so much for taking the time today. It's great to have you on. Uh I wanted to ask you, you know, what does the term sharp mean to you? uh how would you describe a sharp in the industry? What separates a casual better from a sharp better? And what are maybe some uh just basic traits or characteristics of a sharp better in your opinion? Um well, I think overall a sharp is just someone who has an edge. Um a sharp it's the equivalent I guess of of an AP um an advantage player in the sort of casino uh table game um industry. So um characteristics of a sharp I think people that treat it sort of like a business. Um if you're if you have an edge you're I think to have an edge you have to sort of uh treat things you have to have a process and you have to think about things kind of logically and and so um I think a lot of sharps as a result kind of or keep good records. Um but obviously there are you know people do things very different ways. There are people that are sharps who uh win via information. Um and there's people that win via better processing of that information. And ideally, you you want the best information and the best and and as well as the best ability to process it. But but I think um yeah, I think sharps like they kind of run the gamut though overall. I mean there there are a lot of different approaches. And Rufus, another followup here. Uh again, Bet the Process uh podcast. Highly recommend checking out Rufus podcast. just a really if you want to think like a sharp that's a good uh good starting off point as well. Uh but also looking at um setting your own lines. How can you kind of speak to the importance of um you know keeping your own power ratings and setting your own lines looking for discrepancies in the market maybe from how you've capped the game, the number that you have versus uh maybe what the sports books have had and then just kind of maybe basic tips for new betterers looking to be sharp. Uh easy ways to start off Rufus. So, so I I believe very strongly in power ratings and the way I approach things is is very much um sort of I guess as an oddsmaker in a way. I want to I want to make the best number on a game. And so I know there are other people out there that say, you know, power ratings generally the things you can find publicly are all going to be it's priced into the market and and they're looking for sort of edges that are not factored into those ratings. things like um you know basically figuring out which team is going to underperform their true skill and and overperform. Um that's not the way I do it. I think that there are some edges to be had uh developing better ratings and I I feel like if there are you know if a team is going to um underperform um you can kind of hopefully be able to quantify that in in your rating. So the rating isn't just a rating for a team overall. It's a rating for a team at this point in time given the fact that they're traveling. you know, they're flying 2,000 miles um from the west coast to the east coast or or or um whatever. So, in terms of um sort of tips for someone, I I would say the best I I there are things I feel like skills you need um you need to be pretty good with data in general. So, I I would recommend taking um there's a lot of data science boot camps out there, ways to sort of get familiar with that um and which helps on the coding side. So I mean that that's how I would do it. But overall if you want to sort of I mean I I think what data science really does is it enables you to sort of test and try to quantify uh your thought processes. So you might have some theory about um what makes a team win in a football game and you can kind of you know with the data you can actually investigate those things. So it gives you a way to tools to answer these questions you have. Um, but in general I would say um like I would say keep good records and so and be honest with yourself. Um, and that way you can sort of see if you do have an edge. I think another thing, Rufus, is that, you know, with sports betting being legalized all across uh the country, there are so many more opportunities within the sports betting space, more people wanting to bet on sports and enter the market, but also there's a lot of handicappers out there. And I think uh you know you're one of the leading follows on hashtaggambling Twitter and I think what's tough for a new better is that um there's a lot of noise out there on Twitter. There's a lot of people who claim to be sharps and really aren't and there's a lot of touts or what I would call scamic cappers. So, can you just kind of speak to maybe the importance of being careful uh about buying picks from people and uh what would percentage would you say maybe are, you know, the true cappers that do sell picks? Because we don't want to say they're all bad, but um I think the important thing here is just being careful not to buy picks from so-called sharps because you really don't know whether or not they're sharp. Yeah, you you really don't. And so, um, those of you who follow me know that I I kind of have, uh, I've railed against tal for a long time. But uh to speak to your point about all the sort of noise out there, you know, when I when I sort of when I got into this industry, I guess when I was um my senior year of college, I was reading some of these forums on sport, you know, from I guess like two plus not two plus two, that's the poker one, but um like SPR and and other forums um and and trying to kind of learn and and I got so intimidated because it seemed like everybody all these people were experts and they they you know, I was like, well, I I'm not factoring in like whether this team had um motivational advantage because you know or or the fact that they're on their third road game after you know traveling um over 1,000 miles or something you know so it just felt like to me I was like wow like I mean it made me feel like really dumb and and and I realized that um later on I realized that most noise and so um I'd say overall it can be helpful to kind of just ignore a lot of that stuff um and and sort of think on your own. Uh, in terms of pig sellers, you know, I think uh the e the economics of it just don't really support it as a viable long-term um business unless um unless you're not having an impact on the market, which means um you're not winning. So, if let's say if you're if you're a pix seller, if you're releasing pics, generally uh there will be sharp people, you know, if your picss are good, there will be sharp people that will buy the picss and bet into those lines and and move the lines almost instantaneously. Um people with really really good trading operations. And so, basically, the average person, the average subscriber, uh is is going to get the sloppy seconds. So, they won't be getting the release price. and when when margins are so low as they are in sports betting you know you're not going to win basically taking the wor the worst line and so I think that's if you're successful is is a tout um or successful selling picks I think in general um you end up you know getting um poached by like by a syndicate or something like that um and so you don't really you don't really stay around long and so a lot of the a lot of the outfits out there that that you know have claimed to have been doing this for like 30 plus Um, I mean, it's it's hard to I don't see how you can sustainably do that unless you're uh unless you're really not delivering much in the way of value. So, there are a few out there that that that do a good job, but overall um you know, I would say well over 95% um are are not worth it. Rufus, in just a minute or so, you know, you mentioned at the beginning of the conversation, what's great about this this sports betting is you're constantly learning with each bet, with each day, there's something to learn. So, somebody with an active mind like you, it's something that you you're thrilled to do. It's something that continues to give you that juice. Now, as far as your temperament, I want to ask you, what do you find about your own temperament that benefits you as a sports better and maybe something that would be detrimental within your temperament? So, so I've never been asked that question. Um, I I tend to keep a pretty even keel. U but but I think sometimes I I do struggle um I do struggle with self-confidence sometimes and feeling like I haven't actually um improve, you know, feeling um like I'm not doing as well as I could be. I I feel like I kind of it's kind of a blessing and curse. I push myself pretty hard and I hold myself to a really high standard and uh when I when I feel like I'm not meeting that standard I can kind of get down on myself. So that's something that I'm I'm trying to stay more positive. Join the club, Rufus. Join the club. That is we all get there and I appreciate your cander, man, because too too often there's some fake peacocking and I think it's important to understand and be candid about the fact that yeah, we all go through slumps. That's kind of the basis of sports betting. Listen, bet the process is the podcast. Uh, Rufus Peabody on Twitter. Uh, you're tremendous, man. Keep up the great work and stay safe. Okay. Okay. Thanks a lot, guys. Thank you. Appreciate it. I like that last answer there, huh, Josh? The idea of there there you're going to if you have to be you're going to fall into some insecure slumps here in this game because it'll beat you up. You're going to lose 13 straight bets. It's just going to happen, but you have to bounce back and it's easy to fall into that trap of insecurity. Yeah, I think that was a great point by Rufus. even a really sharp guy who wins at a really high rate goes through those uh those times when maybe you question yourself or your self-confidence is low. So that just kind of goes to show you how hard it is overall. But again the key point there I think is temperament staying even keeled not getting too high or too low. If you're really emotional up or down one way that can really really hurt you overall it can blind you. It can talk you out of good decisions and into bad decisions overall. So just goes to show you the importance of staying even keeled. But uh yeah, just to wrap it up today, a sharp better is a pro betterter. They bet for a living. And if you're not super sharp, you can still learn to follow sharp action based on line movement. You can go to von.com for more information. Great job, Josh. The everything guide to sports betting_insights. We'll talk to you next time.
